all right we're going to take this on uh
with uh somebody's going to give us an
interesting perspective on all of this
TK habash who's a former Biden
Administration political appointee now
he resigned from the US Department of
Education last week due to the treatment
of Palestinians in Gaza uh please to say
he joins us from uh Washington DC Studio
T good to have you with us here in Al
jaaz before we get into the wise and
walls of your resignation I I'm just
curious as I say you're a political
appointee and you were a member of the
government effectively that Anthony
blinkin represents what goes through
your mind when you hear him singing the
same old song when he's speaking from
Israel basically backing Israel's
efforts in Gaza with weapons that the US
supplied yeah and thank you for having
me Nick um you know it's it's hard to
hear unfortunately you know we're in a
situation where um the indiscriminate
bombing of over 2 million people in Gaza
has continued for uh over three months
now and it's clear that the messaging
and the policy is not really shifting I
think like there's a clear
acknowledgement that there is too much
uh violence too much harm that has
fallen on uh innocent Palestinian lives
but we continue to fall short of
acknowledging the humanity and the right
to life for those Palestinians and it
it's difficult to hear now you had a
sign ific an important job in the Biden
Administration it's the ongoing
situation in Gaza that of course forced
your hand and I'm sure you didn't take
the decision lightly but just just take
us through if you would why you did make
the decision that you did in the
end yeah listen I mean for me as a
Palestinian American as a Palestinian
man as a Palestinian Christian you know
my my identity is intertwined with
everything that's been happening and the
reality is is that there has been a near
daily dehumanizing effect of our current
policies and uh just what is allowed to
persist um in terms of the aggression
against Palestinian life and I you know
for weeks used every Avenue I could to
raise concerns about these policies to
emphasize the importance of humanizing
Palestinians uh you know Palestinian men
too Palestinian Christians who are a
significant minority in the region now
and you know that message was it fell on
deaf ears and uh it was clear the only
thing that I could do in this moment to
emphasize my consternation my concern
with the ongoing policy uh was to resign
so when when you say it fell on deaf
ears what actually happened did people
just tell you just to keep quiet and and
not mention it or what was what was the
how did it
unfold yeah it it wasn't necessarily
like uh keep quiet um you know the White
House held listening sessions um policy
briefings which was mostly just
communicating to us what their
assessment of the region is um of the
circumstance as it was uh unraveling um
you know within the Department of
Education there was a lot of
understanding even from the secretary
himself who I met with and spoke with on
numerous occasions about um how the how
the violence was affecting me on a
personal level um you know there was a
lot of patience and um and just like con
and constant support from my own
building but I think you know being able
to communicate about that on a personal
level is very different from
acknowledging how the broader policies
are affecting millions of people in the
region and also millions of Americans
who broadly support an end to this
violence and uh permanent ceasefire
right we'll come on to that in just a
second but I guess it must been
extremely hard for you to hear what you
what was being said effectively by your
boss the president and when he said he
didn't for examp example necessarily
trust Palestinian figures for the number
of
dead yeah yeah absolutely I talk about
that in my letter that you know there
are certain things that I think were um
really dangerous rhetoric that was used
by the administration over the last
three months that allowed and
facilitated uh the level of Destruction
against uh the Gaza Strip and the
millions of people who live there today
so yeah now you you talked about the
growing support for the Palestinian
cause in the United States a protest has
interrupted President Biden's speech
yesterday in South Carolina we're likely
to see more of that I guess as the in
this election year to what degree do you
think this is going to affect uh the
Democrats hopes in the polls the
election
polls yeah I think it's up to the
president and the Democratic party more
broadly to make a decision but I think
we're seeing it affect uh that right now
like you said there were protests at the
church where the president spoke there
were protests across New York City that
shut down uh four different tunnels and
bridges you know this is something that
we're starting to see more of because I
think the the soul of the American
people really does believe in an end to
the violence here I think we see a
majority of Americans support a
ceasefire we see the vast majority of
the democratic base younger voters
voters of color who do not believe that
the current policies are reflective of
their values and I think the president
has frequently in the last week t talked
about what 2024 means with respect to
protecting democracy from an
authoritarian um regime that would uh be
possible under Trump and I think that's
a really important and critical message
but I think it's also inconsistent with
what the president is doing uh with
respect to his deference to an
authoritarian right-wing regime in the
Israeli government and its oppression of
millions of Palestinians so I was just
one final thing the thing is that
Democrats disagree all they like with
President Biden but what are they going
to do are they going to just just turn
turtle and vote for
Trump no I think it's up to the
president to decide how important his
voters are and uh understanding that
they really do value human life
regardless of whose lives it is and it's
clear that the current policies um you
know put restrictions on uh when
Palestinian lives matter and when they
don't and I think that's a problem for
voters T we do appreciate you coming on
to talk to us here at Al jazer thanks
very much indeed as T aash your former
Biden Administration political appointee
who resigned from the Department of
Education last week thank you T